Overview

During times of stress or tension, you may withdraw inside yourself and appear as somewhat cool and aloof. You need to be alone when thinking through projects, problems or solutions. 
You usually assume a cautious and reserved demeanor when meeting new people. Your relationships must grow naturally and in sincere ways. You will not confide in others readily because of your need for security. 
Others may see you as disciplined and self-controlled. You have seen the problems of being overly optimistic when planning to depend on others following through. 
Others showing genuine sincerity and acceptance impress you. You do not like a shallow expression of feelings or thoughtlessness of others. You will get along with most people you meet because you don't cause hostility
Because of your thoughtful nature, you need others to express sincere interest in you or the relationship. This offers the secure feeling that you seek
You may be a matter-of-fact person who may be critical of the shortcomings of others who display a more emotional or outgoing side. 


Communication

Each person has a unique way of communicating. We use a combination of body language, facial expression, verbal tone and word choice to share ourselves with others. The following statements offer a look at the natural behavior you bring to an interpersonal relationship. 

You may be somewhat reticent and retiring when with others, especially in a large group. As others grow louder, you may become quieter. You value control of emotions, and are more reflective than rowdy. 
You tend to listen rather than talk. You may place a premium on display of emotions. As a result, "reading" you at times may be difficult. 
Because of your need to be quiet rather than rambling, you are somewhat introspective about events and activities. You may not communicate readily and rapidly with others, but this does not mean you don't support others. 
Some people may inaccurately perceive you as not liking people. You may be misread by others, because you approach social situations with logic and objectivity, judging others by their competence--you may sometimes be misread by others. 
You are usually astute in social situations because you take little at face value, will listen carefully and accurately, and will watch others carefully. 
You may want to base relationships on a nonemotional respect for each other's abilities, and base your level of trust on directness and straightforwardness. 
You attempt to influence others not by showing great emotion, but by appealing to the logical nature of people. Those who are more emotional and excitable may sometimes ignore your approach. 


Improving Communication

Many different factors determine the communication styles with which you are most comfortable. Some individuals thrive on the challenge of pointed criticism, while others are at their best in a nurturing environment where criticism is offered as a suggestion for improvement. Each of us has a unique set of requirements and preferences. Below is a list of communication styles that will mesh well with your own. Having a partner who understands and practices these traits is important to your long-term happiness. 

Work to achieve mutual satisfaction. 
Provide time to analyze the data before making a decision. 
Show patience, especially when drawing out information. 
Respect quiet demeanor. 
Use a logical and unemotional approach. 
Have facts and ideas in a logical order. 
Give pros and cons of ideas. 
Listen sincerely. 
Be responsive toward ideas and commitments. 
Patiently draw out personal interests. 
Show sincere interest as a person. 


Strengths

Following are some of the specific strengths and/or personal characteristics that you bring to a relationship. These may form the foundations of many of your friendships and dealings with other people. Some will seem obvious, but you may be surprised by others. Take a moment to reflect on each and consider what role it may have played in your past successes, and even failures.  
 
You are good at reconciling (i.e. you don't like to sulk after a conflict is resolved). 
You are good at helping others people reach their goals. 
You are good at "troubleshooting" potential problems in a relationship. 
You take pride in being very loyal to friends and family. 
You are very sincere in actions and words. 
You are very supportive of other people. 
You tend to work hard at making sure that other people are happy. 
You don't tend to get distracted by superficial issues. 
You are a dependable and caring partner. 
You are excellent at listening to the concerns and ideas of others 


Needs

In general, human beings are defined by their needs and individuals by their wants. Your emotional wants are especially important when establishing with whom you are compatible. While answering the Relationship Questionnaire you established a pattern of basic, subconscious wants. This section of the report was produced by analyzing those patterns. Our wants change as we mature and obtain our life goals. You may find it valuable to revisit this section periodically to see how your wants have changed

You may want: 
Time to adjust to change. 
Objectivity and logic in relationships and activities. 
Security and safety procedures around the house: fire safety, smoke detectors, electronic security systems, etc. 
Recognition for your concern for quality relationships. 
Reassurance. 
Time away occasionally--you value your privacy. 
A supportive environment where you do not have to display great emotion. 
Detailed information about major decisions with complete instructions. 
Things done "right" the first time. 
Freedom from pressure to perform or to act quickly without precedent. 
Others to adhere to your high standards. 
Straight talk and straight dealing. 

