NOTE:  This is a late night rant and not been read since.  It is here at the
request of an individual and should not be seen as what I now or truely believe

If I had to start a church...

The golden rule holds.  If you do a favor for someone, and he does a favor for
you, that is using a form of good karma.  But, if you promote doing favors
without expectation of reward, then others will begin to do so, by example.
Eventually, this philosophy will sustain itself, and random people will do
you favors when you need them.

Self Interest is not wrong.  It is necessary.  Nothing is done without
expectation of reward, but intelligence and community allow us to look beyond
immediate (payment) or direct (payback) reward.

Forcing charity is wrong.  A religion that demands payment directly (in terms
of a collection) or indirectly, through forced charity, is illusory.

Any gift to charity much be for the emotional reward.  A gift to support a
cause is to gain personal satisfaction for supporting a cause you believe in.
However, the best way to get a thing done is to make it worth someone's while
to do it.

Are new drugs developed to save patients or to make money?  It is NOT wrong
to have or make money.

Consider two senarios:

I give $1000 to charity for AIDS.  Say this money is spent on subsidizing the
cost some HIV patients pay for medical supplies like syringes.

Did I help find a cure for AIDS?   No.
What did I get out of it?  A good feeling.

Second senario:  I buy $1000 worth of stock in a new biomedical research firm
that is researching new drugs for HIV. 

Did I help find a cure for AIDS?  Yes, investing gives the money to the company
to expand and help its research.
What did I get out of it?  A good feeling AND, if the company suceeds, some
return on the investment.

Is there a God?  Well, that's a very loaded question.  Many religions belive
in God without defininf who or what he is.  This one says, YES, there is
something beyond ourselves, but it comes from within.  We do not act righteous
because we fear hell, or God.  We do not follow his rules set in stone.  We
follow our own rules as we believe them.  

1ST tenet of this religon:  THINK for yourself!

So why are we here?  That's EASY, to live our lives, in the best way we can,
trying to fix the things we see as being wrong with the universe.  In this
way we make the world a better place (for *US*).

2ND tenet: Educate thyself.  Knowledge is power.  One should always be learning
because that's how you gain power for yourself to affect the world around you.
A newborn is ignorant of the world, and so cannot affect it.  Ignorance is NOT
bliss.  It is a waste of life.

Is there a heaven?  We live on in our impact, impression, and mark on the
world.  Everyone can and should leave a mark, even if it is only by having
kids and passing on these good ideals to them.  If your 'calling' is to be
a President, then do so.  If it is to be a father, then do that.  Neither
is more or less important to the world.

Good deeds do not get us into heaven, they make life better for us while we
live.

Afterlife?  Spirits, ghosts, ESP, psychics, reincarnation?  It is impossible
to prove that something can't be done.  One can only prove that it CAN be.
We ARE limited by only two things in this universe, our knowledge about 
how the universe works, and by what we BELIVE is possible.  Therefore we should
always follow these tenet 2, via exploration if the knowledge doesn't always
exist.  But, to get around the second limitation, one must always:

TENET 3: Keep an open mind

Everything is possible, if you know how.  We discount ghosts, yet believe that
invisible beams of energy can warm our food.  We can fly, we can fight micro-
basteria.  So why is teleportation easy to accept as a future technology, but
a discovery of a God, a soul, or a heaven, not?

Most of the hard questions about religious beliefs become easy when you
responsibility of a person's life TO that person AND make them THINK.

Marraige is a religious thing that our laws have embraced.  I personally like
the idea of monogamy for emotional stability and support.  I like the idea
of making a promise to one person and having that person promise me back.

I do not want divorce to be an option in my life.  It negates one purpose of
marraige.  But this does not mean that divorce should be forbidden.  
Marraige is between the two people involved (who should consider children
themselves if they have any)

Definition of marraige?  Whatever you want.  IT's no on else's business.
You want to take 40 wives and they all want you, go right ahead.  You want
to marry someone of the same sex?  Like I said, it between you two, we'll
respect what you want to do with YOUR life.

Pre-marrital sex?  Same deal.  3 tenets:  Is this a good idea for you?  Don't
listen to other people, think for yourself.  Educate yourself on what this
means.  Sex has physical and emotional implications, learn about them.  And
keep an open mind.  If YOU don't think someone else is ready, that they haven't
educated themselves, or though things out properly, then SPEAK UP, but if they
have and just disagree with you, then butt out.  What right for you isn't
what's right for everyone else.  Some people it is right for, some it may not
be.  It's a personal choice.

Abortion:  Again, physical and emotional consequences.  Learn how women feel
about their abortions 20 years after the fact.  Face your fears about having
a baby especially if you think you're not ready or too young.  Don't listen
to other people, think about what's right for you.  BUT also realize that you
are making a decision for TWO people.  You and your unborn child.  He or she
doesn't get a vote because you're responsible for him or her.  We'll trust
your judgement as to the right decision for the both of you.  Death is part
of life, even if life has only been occuring for less than nine months.  And
for everyone who thinks that it is murder, KEEP AN OPEN MIND.  The laws we
have on this reflect the sum of our feelings.  It is man's decision on to 
allow this for people or not.  If your country or state forbids it (and this
decision is an educated vote from the citizens) then that's the way it is.
This is a much more political issue than a religious one.

Prayer?

It should be obvious by now, but it is a personal choice.  We all 'pray' for
things to work out the way we want them.  If voicing these requests helps you
then by all means do it.  If you gain nothing, don't.  Same with churches.
If you need a weekly reminder to keep you emotionally stable, great!  If not,
go follow the tenets on your Sunday mornings, you're still a good person.

Sin?

Sin is doing anything against the tenets.  So, following blindly is a sin.
Close minded (pig headed) belief is a sin, and remaining ignorant is a sin.
Many others follow from these (bigotry, prejudice, etc.)

BUT these are NOT sins:

Praying to false idols: Pray however you want.

telling lies: It is generally bad karma, so you may not want to, but not sin

killing: generally illegal, usually bad karma, but sometimes very necessary 
(self defence, times of war, abortion) I don't want to die at the hands of 
another, so I like having the law against murder.  IT's not a sin.

adultery: people can make laws against it, and it is something that has 
consequences (even if only emotional), but not a sin.

stealing: same.

greed/coveting thy neighbors stuff: DEFINITELY NOT A SIN.  Our desires are the
SOURCE of our driving force to suceed in life.  If you want a big house and a 
loving wife like your neighbor, go get them.  Do what you have to do.  Go to 
school, get a better job, learn, think, do.

gluttony: fat people aren't respected, but if you want to be fat, why should I
care?

pride/vanity: NOT A SIN.  I never understood this one.  People need to believe
in them selves and their abilities.  We do not want to be like everyone else,
we want to be better.  It is IMPORTANT to try and surpass those around you.
Now, this isn't saying you should go around saying "I'm the best" and stop
learning or doing good things.  But why the heck do you have to feel inferior
or not proud of what you're doing?  If you want to look pretty, do it.  But
you should always remember the karma thing.  If you piss everyone off you're
not going to get anywhere in life, so don't put other down to push yourself up.

lust: We have emotions and passions.  Now if lust means 'losing your head' and
not thinking, then its obvious what this philosohy says about that, but if lust
is physical desire, then there's not a thing wrong with it.  However, you
shouldn't ever let anything control you.  Don't fall victim to your emotions.

Now, these ARE SINS:

anger: Face it, we get pissed off. When that happens we don't think straight.
you HAVE TO THINK.  you have to act responsibly, logically and rationally.
You can't do that when you're angry.  LEt it pass, take a break, calm down.

sloth:  get off your ass and do something.  Better your life, learn something,
change the world.  you do have the power or at least the ability to get some
power.  don't waste time.  Take a break if you need it.  Sleep to get your
strength, but don't waste your life.

- Neal

