Why are we here?  Well, this universe was create with certain intelligent
laws of nature and physics.  These laws are carefully balances such that
from an initial input of pure 'random' energy suns, solar systems,
planets, and eventually life was created. Because the universe is built on
intelligence, intelligent life has the best ecological niche for survival.
On this planet, we are the first to reach this level of evolution, but I
am sure that this planet is not unique in that respect.  Our purpose in
life is two fold, first is to understand, and second is to create.  We
must understand our universe so as to broaden our knowledge and
intelligence.  And we must create so as to continue the work of the
universe which created us.  There is a joke by George Carlin (a comedian)
who says that the earth needed plastic, and It couldn't figure out how to
make it naturally, so it created humans to learn how to make plastic, then
make it.  He goes on to say that now our usefulness is at an end and the
earth will kill us all off, but I don't nessecarily agree with that part.
the main point of the argument is sound.  the universal plan allowed
intelligence to come about naturally and continue the work artificially.
As a race we are destined to continue to explore our planet, and outer
space, to continue to learn about the universe, and natural laws, but we
also must include learning about ourselves (which includes psychology)
Now how does this affect each of us individually?  We each must provide a
way for us to benefit the world as a whole.  For most of us this means
going to school, learning what we can, recontributing to the body of
knowledge of the world, and also passing this knowledge on to children so
they can continue the task.  We have to give kids the proper tools,
economic stature, mental frame of kind, everything to be all they can be.
For others who don't want children, they can contribute in different ways,
usually as a mentor, teacher, or researcher.  Almost any task, job, career
you can imagine does benefit the whole in some way.  the only enemies to
this are ignorance and other forms of savagery.
